# FinalProject

I have created a database that allows both a salon owner, or a self employed stylist, to better track and manage their business. Initially I intended the database for a single stylist to manage their daily business needs. However, I adjusted it to include a table for staffing, which allows for scalability of the database.  The database has been designed to manage inventory, store vendor and client information, book appointments, and record sales information to better store and process business functions. 

The original database was created with eight tables: Appointments, Clients, Inventory, Products, Sales, Services, Stylists, and Vendors. Mock data was used to set up the test database and ensure functionality for active use. Upon attempting to load some mock data, I found some originally built constraints on allowed data had to be adjusted. Constraints are needed to ensure the database can provide the best support to the business. My initial attempt at creating tables unfortunately did not include the auto incrementing primary key constraints. Though there could be manual entries of primary keys for adding new data, it was not best practice to expect staffing to know the last primary key on file and add the next one. This oversight was corrected by creating a backup database file, removing the original database, and prior to reprocessing the backup script, adding the logic to allow the system to add the next available primary key automatically. This adjustment will ensure better data integrity and minimize human error. 

Salons, though walk-ins are welcome, rely heavily on appointments. Having appointments ensure there is sufficient staff to meet the needs of clientele, as well as supply of products for the requested service. I created a stored procedure to allow for a stylist to easily add booked appointments to the database. They would be able to enter the appointment information and that information would populate on the Appointments table. With so many appointments, the staff would need to consistently plan their days. A function was created to allow a day sheet of booked appointments to be displayed based on an entered date. Additionally, a stylist would not want to have a client in their chair and realize their required product was out of stock, so a view was created that would list any item that was less than their designated minimum stock amount. This view shows the vendor information along with the product, allowing staff to streamline reordering supplies without having to review multiple tables. 

Later I realized, having a historical list of products may be handy, but splitting the information into an available products table and a discontinued products table would be better for active use by staff. The SSIS package was created and used to divide the Products table into those items still in production, and those that were discontinued. 
